# projectdetails
Graduation Project


Pneumonia Immunization Awareness Among Older Adults and Determining the Influence of Education In Periodic Vaccination


Abstract

Personal health behaviors and day to day activities of every individual will provide an impact on their life. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), one among 20 adults who are affected by pneumonia expected to die. Despite awareness programs and campaigns, the issue still exists. The Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) is a telephone survey initiated by the CDC and conducted monthly by state health departments all over the USA. This study will mine BRFSS dataset which consists of risk behaviors, health practices of U.S residents and tries to find the relationship of the demographic factor on the older individual’s pneumonia vaccination awareness. This research will also analyze the data to find the pattern about pneumonia immunization awareness over the last five years among the senior citizens.
Keywords: pneumonia; vaccination; awareness; education; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; CDC; Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System; BRFSS
Introduction
	Pneumonia is one of the primary diseases which may lead to mortality in older adults. It is one of the critical problems all over the world. Obrosky et al. (2010) describe pneumonia as “Community-acquired pneumonia is a common, costly, and potentially life-threatening illness”  (p.308). Katsurada et al. (2017) describe that bacteria such as Streptococcus pneumoniae and Haemophilus influenzae are the reason for pneumonia. The risk of pneumonia increases with age and individuals with drinking, smoking habits, chronic medical conditions will also have a high risk of pneumonia. Samokhvalov, Irving, and Rehm (2010) share the result through analysis that they could observe a strong relationship between alcohol and pneumonia. Individuals with alcohol habits are prone to pneumonia than individuals without that habit.
Pneumonia is caused in several ways. Community-acquired pneumonia, the hospital-acquired pneumonia are the ways through which people will be affected by pneumonia. Manabe, Teramoto, Tamiya, Okochi, and Hizawa (2015) describes that the primary form of community-acquired and the healthcare-associated pneumonia is the aspiration pneumonia. It is also one of the reasons for mortality in older adults. In order to prevent pneumonia, it is best practice to take a pneumonia vaccination.  All over the world, many country’s governments are trying to create awareness of pneumonia. Pneumococcal vaccines are readily available, but those who benefit are not aware of that, and the vaccination rate is still low.
There are several studies which investigated to determine the reason why pneumonia vaccination uptake is low. Song et al. (2013) explain that the clinician’s attitude will also influence vaccine uptake. Various demographic factors will also impact pneumonia vaccination uptake. This research will focus on the influence of the demographic factor of education over pneumonia vaccination uptake on sample individuals in the United States. While there are many demographic factors available and many were already researched, a relation between education and pneumonia vaccination might help to mitigate the impact. The result might help to provide more attention to the lacking area. 
Literature Review
Senior citizens and Pneumonia: The Current Scenario:
The population rate of senior citizens is increasing every year. According to Czaja (2019), “In the United States, current estimates suggest that by 2030 people over the age of 65 will represent more than 20% of the U.S. population and those over 85 will grow to almost 9 million people” (p.61). Tong, Amand, Kieffer and Kyaw (2018) explains older adults are in the highest risk for hospitalization and death due to pneumonia. Tong et al. (2018) state a very important factor that among overall pneumonia cases, nearly 24.1% were older adults with age more than 65 years. Turbeville, Conner, Johnson and McGough (2018) observed in their research that about 85% of pneumonia and influenza death occurs at the age of more than 65 in the United States.
Tong et al. (2018) mentioned that the frequency of pneumonia increases with the age of older adults. As the age increase, the immune system gets weak, and it influences older adults to get easily affected by the disease. The lack of awareness about pneumonia among older adults may lead to many serious problems. Marshall et al. (2018) describe a severe issue due to pneumonia - mortality. There are chances that older adults affected by pneumonia who also have other health-related risks may result in death.
Variables associated with Pneumonia:
Marshall et al. (2018), explains that there are several variables like age, underlying disease severity, failed initial therapy, and the pneumococcal infection may lead to mortality due to pneumonia. The impact could be severe and cause an imbalance in a society which has a large number of older adults. Hamaguchi et al. (2018) explain the underlying health condition and other factors that help to predict the mortality in older adults. This study provides important factors such as age, healthcare-associated pneumonia (HCAP) to be considered while taking care of older adults. McGilton et al. (2018) explain the importance of care that should be provided by caregivers for older adults who are affected by multiple chronic conditions known as multimorbidity.
Prolonged health conditions such as chronic pulmonary disease will also be a reason for older adults to get easily affected by pneumonia. Corcoles et al. (2015) investigated that chronic pulmonary disease is one among the underlying condition which has a direct influence in increasing the risk of pneumonia in older adults. Brown, Harnett, Chambers and Sato (2018) states that “The risk of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) increases with age and some of the additional risk factors include the chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma, diabetes, congestive heart failure (CHF)” (p.1). 
Apart from existing risk factors among old adults, Neralla and Meyer (2004) explain that smoking, drinking alcohol, malnutrition could also increase the risk of pneumonia. The chance of recurrent occurrence of pneumonia is high in old adults who miss periodic vaccination and who were previously affected by pneumonia. Vidal et al. (2009) state “In a sub-analysis of 389 episodes of pneumococcal pneumonia, the lack of pneumococcal vaccination is the independent risk factor for the recurrence of pneumonia” (p.1033). As mentioned by McGilton et al. (2018) the caregivers also should be aware of the existing health condition and should take necessary preventive measures.
Factors which influence immunization rate:
Other than the health issues faced by individuals, one of the major factors to be considered is cost. Brown et al. (2018) explain in their study 40% of older adults who are affected by community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) are hospitalized for more than 5 days and the medical cost for per individual could be around $18000. There are many types of research performed to understand why the pneumonia immunization rate is low and to find the factors which influence the immunization rate. Turbeville et al. (2018) noted that there are many factors like concern about the vaccines, the cost of the vaccines, inadequate awareness among older adults affects the immunization rate.
Mo and Lau (2015) shared that lack of health insurance for individuals, afraid of side effects due to the vaccine and negative views about the vaccine are some factors due to which older adults are not taking the vaccination. Older adults who are not visiting hospitals are frequently not aware of the hospital and periodic vaccination processes. Research conducted by Crawford, O'Hanlon and McGee (2011) conclude that increased visit to hospitals by older people might boost their trust towards healthcare service, and they can get to know more about the vaccination that they should take to prevent from disease.
A study by Endrich, Blank and Szucs (2009) in 11 European countries indicate that demographic factors like education, household income impact the immunization rate. This study shows that socioeconomic factors influence the immunization rate. A study by Tse, Wyatt, Shevrin and Kwon (2018) states that there is no impact of racial/ethnic differences in pneumococcal vaccination rates whereas a study by Chen et al. (2007) about racial/ethnic barriers in flu vaccination states that the vaccination uptake rate differs across racial and ethnic groups. Akturk et al. (2017) explained in their study that participants reported that they have not uptake pneumonia vaccination as there is no recommendation for treatment by doctors. These factors indirectly block the individual in attaining proper medical care.
Pneumonia vaccination awareness trying to increase the rate:
Pneumonia vaccination awareness is still considered to be low, and this is showing serious impact in old adults. Christenson et al. (2004) share a study of older Swedish patients from Stockholm, which shows the effectiveness of pneumococcal and influenza vaccination in that population. There is a 29% reduction in the incidence of all-cause pneumonia and a 35% reduction in the death rate from all-cause pneumonia. In general, people should be aware of providing immediate medical care for the patients affected by pneumonia, especially in the case of old adults. Castillo et al. (2014) say that normal adults may get clinically stabilized in the third or fourth day whereas weak elderly patients may take 2 to 7 days to get clinically stabilized. Melgaard et al. (2018) suggested that early mobilization of patients affected by CAP in the hospital might also reduce the length of stay in the hospital.
All these studies explain the importance of the issue and show the current scenario that senior citizens still lack awareness about pneumonia. The immunization awareness rate remains to be the one which should be modified. Turbeville et al. (2018) state “Healthy People 2020’s objective was to increase immunization rates against pneumococcal pneumonia to 90% in adults age 65 and older” (p.287). Assaad, El-Masri, Porhomayon, and El-Solh (2012) stated that a successful health organization which projected high success in vaccination against pneumonia is the Veteran’s Administration (VA).
The findings from these researches highlight the current situation about pneumonia awareness among older adults, the necessity to increase the pneumonia vaccination awareness among people, studies about various factors which influence the immunization rate in different geographic locations in Europe and Asia Pacific. Further theoretical and empirical research is essential to fully understand how the independent factor: Education plays a major role in determining the rate of the Pneumonia immunization rate in the United States and to understand the pneumococcal vaccine awareness specifically among older individuals residing in the United States. This exploratory study is a small, first step toward understanding and analyzing the awareness rate among individuals and the impact of education on pneumonia immunization.
Methodology

The Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System was established by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The survey is conducted by asking questions to individuals who are participating. The survey includes a core questionnaire in which some are fixed questions, and some are rotational every other year. Additionally, participants are asked optional questions and state-based questions. During the survey’s early days, it was conducted using only landline phone connections. Starting in 2008, participants being reached through landline and cell phones. The participating individual’s data are protected. The important data such as their name, address and phone numbers are not disclosed.  The participating individuals are not remunerated, but they were informed that this data would help to increase the health of US residents (CDC, 2014).
With CDC guidance, the state health departments use in house interviewers, contract with telephone call centers and, universities in order to conduct and direct the survey. Using Random Digit Dialing (RDD) technique, the individuals are reached at their landline or mobile phone. CDC used the post-stratification method to weight the obtained data from the year 1980 to 2010. From 2011, CDC started to use iterative proportional fitting or raking to weight the BRFSS survey data. The collected data are stored in the form of values which are numbers and the codebook for every year will have the description, value labels, and frequencies (CDC, 2018).
The data collected from the survey sample is the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) dataset. This dataset obtained from the CDC website could be accessed without permission, but the acknowledgment for the source is necessary. The researcher selected this sample because it is comprised of various factors that provide a vast scope to analyze how daily practices can affect the individual. Participants for this study includes adults above 18 years of age and both genders. The participant’s education level has been categorized into four levels. College Graduation is the highest level of education. As some participants have not answered the requested questions, 5% to 10% of data is discarded from every available dataset. The total sample participants from 2013 to 2017 with valid details are 720,525. 
The researcher used Apache Hadoop 2.73 and stored this big dataset in HDFS. In order to retrieve the required variables for this research, Map Reduce code generated using Apache Pig is used. The obtained dataset contains not sure, missing and blank values in all the necessary columns and those details will be cleaned using Python Pandas. Mukaka (2012) states that “correlation coefficients are used to assess the strength and direction of the linear relationships between pairs of variables” (p.71). In order to find the relationship between the variables, correlation analysis, ANOVA and Ordinary Least Square model are used. For correlation testing, Pearson correlation analysis will be used to determine the relationship between the independent variable Education and the dependent variable Pneumonia vaccination for older adults. A one-way ANOVA will be used to find the dependency of Education over Pneumonia vaccination. Two-tailed and ρ < 0.05 criteria will be used for analyzing the data. The Ordinary Least Square model (OLS) will be used to estimate the relationship between the independent and dependent variable.


	
